MultipleDisease Prediction- Predict the likelihood of 3 diseases.Kidney,Indian liver and Parkinson disease.
Kidney dataset is read and the target classification count are checked. The dataset contains both numerical and categorical value.
Null and Nan value are handled.Target value has 2 value, checked and nonchecked are mapped to 0 and 1. Filled the missing numerical values by mean and categorical value by mode.Train-test split is done. Encoded categorical valu using ordinal encoder and scaling is done to the numerical columns.Data imbalance is handled using SMOTE method. The model is trianed using Logistic Regression and its evaluated to find confusion matrix.The predicted model, feature selection, encoding,scaler all are stored in pickle file. The text file is uploaded as input and the prediction for kidney disease is made and showed as dataframe and also u can download it as text file. Parkinson disease is predicted by reading dataset and missing value are handled here. the target status has two value 0 and 1 which indicates parkinson disease is there or not.Target and feature are selected as X and Y.Standard scaler is done and train-test split is done and the model is trained using randomforest classifier. The model is evaluated and confusion matrix is made to find accuracy. In streamlit the 3 pickle file ie.scaler file, feature selection, model are selected and the input file is loaded by the user and the prediction is made as dataframe and also file can be downloaded. For Indian liver disease , the dataset is read and dataset contain both numerical and categorical data. Missing value are handled. The target dataset contain 2 category 1 and 2 which represent 1 as liver disease 2 as healthy.Filling numerical value with mean and categorical value gender is encode using label encoder.Resampled using SMOTE+Tomek due to imbalance datas and standard scaler is done and model is trained using random forest classifier and confusion matrix is made. The prediction is made in streamlit by getting 3 inputs from the user as Age, gender and Total_bilirubin and all the other column value are taken from file and the prediction is made whether the person has liver disease or not.
